MacTableaux 1.0

Copyright © Dan Romik 2008-2020

Change log: 

- November 2020: recompiled the source code for the Intel 64-bit architecture. The current package contains two app binary bundles: "MacTableaux" is the newly compiled version that will run on Macs running versions of MacOS compatible with the 64-bit architecture. The binary "MacTableaux-old-32bit" will run on older Macs running the pre-64-bit versions of MacOS dating back to at least MacOS 10.5 (Leopard) and possibly some of the earlier versions.



- Original app notes from February 2008, updated slightly:

MacTableaux is a program for experimenting with random Young diagrams and random Standard Young Tableaux (SYT’s). Simulate Plancherel measure on the set of Young diagrams, Rost’s corner growth model for random Young diagrams, or uniformly random SYT of given shape (including the cases of square, rectangular, and staircase shapes which my coauthors and I have studied). Also implemented are the Robinson-Schensted algorithm, the jeu de taquin sliding operations, and the non-crossing path interpretation of SYT’s.

This program was written on XCode 3.0 in the Cocoa development environment under Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard). It definitely runs on Intel-based Macs running Mac OS 10.5, and might run on pre-Intel Macs running the same Mac OS versions, and also on Macs running earlier versions of Mac OS X. I haven't tried, so I don't know... If you try running it on such systems, please let me know if it worked or not. If it didn't work, it is possible that I can make it work by compiling it with the correct settings, so it is worth your while to let me know!

You are free to use this program and also to distribute it freely to other people, as long as you change nothing and distribute the entire package including this information file and the accompanying instructions file.

My contact details are:

Dan Romik
romik@math.ucdavis.edu
https://www.math.ucdavis.edu/~romik/

Please write to me if you used this program and liked it, or for any more information. You may also visit my home page for more information about this program and other free programs I've written.

Enjoy!

Dan Romik